All right, so in this particular
video, let's understand one more
very important concept because now
we already know about queue systems.
You know, even there is a small
problem with the queue system.
Let's say what happens is
whenever, okay, I'll just give you
a scenario that whenever
there is a payment success, okay?
Whenever there's a payment success,
you want to do couple of things.
Number one, you want
to trigger and email, okay?
And you want to update
the order to be success.
Let's say these are the two
things that you want to do.
Now in this particular architecture,
how you are going to do it?
Number one, the first way using
the simple queues, is what
you are going to do whenever
a payment gets successful.
First thing is that you
enqueue something into
the email queue, right?
So that it can be sent email send.
Second is that you
need one more queue.
Let's name this particular
queue as the order queue.
You are going to push one more
message into the order queue which
can be later processed by the order
service to update something.
Now see what happened here, you
are basically doing two different
tasks about one operations.
So whenever there's a payment
successful, you are
doing two different tasks.
What if these were three tasks?
Then you have to add one more thing.
Now this is a bad thing, right?
You are doing multiple things
when one event occurs.
So in this particular scenario,
we actually don't use
these kind of architectures.
We don't want this kind
of branching out everywhere.
We do something known as Pub nub.
Okay?
In pubnub, what happens is that
you basically put a publisher,
okay, let's take S and S.
So SNS is basically one too many.
So what you do, the payment service
can publish an event, okay?
An event saying payment success.
That's it, payment success.
So this is your event and you
are publishing this event
to some kind of a broker system.
Now this service can do is
it can internally send this message
to the order queue as well.
And it can internally send
the message automatically
to the email queue as well.
Because email queue and order queue
both are listening to this thing.
So if you see this diagram, it is
basically one too many, right?
One too many.
And there's a filter.
So what can, what you can do is you
can use this kind of an
architecture where now see, the
payment service is only and only
sending and emitting one event that
is payment success.
And if someone wants to do something
with that payment success, they
can do it right Tomorrow maybe I
have one more, one more service.
Let's say this is a WhatsApp service.
I also want to trigger
a WhatsApp service.
So what I can do is this WhatsApp
service can also listen
to this particular pub now.
So there is no change needed
on the payment side payments.
So it's basically like, you know,
let's say I am a payment service.
I can just you know, shout, hey,
the payment is successful.
And all the people in this room, if
they want to do something with
this information, they can do it.
It's basically like that.
So earlier what we were basically
doing with the email system was I,
as a payment service was going to
person A, that hey, this person has
done a payment, do you want to do
something?
I was going to person two that, hey,
he has done the payment service,
do you want to do something?
Rather now what I am basically
doing is I'm just shouting in
the air that payment is successful.
Whosoever wants to do
something, they can do it.
So this is your Pub Nub architecture.
And also, also, because if you
clearly see this, what happened
is you had one publisher.
So let's say you had
a publisher here.
This is, this is a publisher.
You published it to a topic.
SNS has a concept of topics, so sns.
So let's say this is
your pubnub, okay?
To a Pub Nub.
Now from this Pub Nub,
you are basically sending it
to multiple queues.
So let me just take an example
of a queue here.
So let's say this is your
queue system, okay?
So queue, then again a queue,
then again a queue.
So this is order queue, payment
queue, some other queue.
So this Pubnub sends this message
to 1, send this message to 2,
and sends this message to 3 queues.
This is also known as a,
fan out architecture.
Okay, so this is your fan out
architecture because if you notice
here, one message is getting
fanned out to multiple services
and to this multiple services.
Then you have your
servers listening to it.
So basically you have your servers.
So maybe you can have like
two servers right here, you can
have one server here, you can
have multiple servers here.
So these are basically dequeuing
your messages and processing it.
So this is how the reality works.
So whenever you place an order
on the Amazon, they just
say, hey, order received.
Whichever service wants to listen
to it, email service wants to listen
to it, WhatsApp service wants to
listen to it, some marketing or ad
service wants to listen to it.
They just keeps on listening it
and do their work and they go on.
So this is a true decoupling
between microservice architecture.
That is a fan out architecture.
So just look at this
particular complex diagram.
I mean, we have studied a lot
of things in the system design.